Health officials in Gaza say more than a
hundred people have been killed after
Israeli soldiers opened fire near a
crowd waiting for humanitarian Aid
delivery in Gaza City Hamas widely
designated as a terrorist group runs the
Gaza Health Ministry and Hamas officials
there say more than 700 others were
injured in the incident Israeli
officials say most of those killed died
in a crush to get aid but they have also
acknowledged that as the aid Convoy
moved further north troops fired warning
shots including at people's legs
believing that the crowd gathered around
the Convoy posed a
threat here is more from an Israeli
government spokesperson on the incident
my understanding thus far is that uh
humanitarian Aid Vehicles entered the
Gaza Strip and were
overwhelmed by uh people attempting to
essentially loot to uh to take that Aid
um from those a trucks and at some
point and we can you you can surely see
this in some of the videos that the IDF
have distributed at some
point the trucks were overwhelmed and
the people driving the trucks which were
Garen
uh Garen civilian drivers uh plowed
into um the crowds of people let's get
across to DW's Tanya Kramer in Jerusalem
Tanya at this point we have conflicting
reports about what has happened so let's
be clear about what we do and don't know
at this point can you tell us first of
all what we can say for
sure well I mean as you said there are
conflicting reports and uh you know
there were devastating scenes being
described by eyewitness to wire Services
there um so what we know is that this
eight Convoy moved uh from the uh Convoy
of trucks moved from the south of the
Gaza Strip to the north Northern Gaza
Strip we understand it passed a uh
checkpoint there on the way and then
what eyewitnesses are saying uh uh is
that uh once the uh eight Convoy was
moving there the trucks arrived on the
other side that uh a lot of people uh
went there obviously and uh and that
there were shots fired from the Israeli
military that caused people to panic
also the drivers to panic and then uh to
uh turn turn around and also run people
over causing a stampede so to speak this
is what eyewitnesses have said and that
what caus the casualties that have been
uh reported by the uh Ministry of Health
there in Gaza now the uh Israeli
military has released uh aerial footage
uh from this area this is the coastal
Road uh going from the south to the
north and they are saying that were
actually two incidents that there was a
stampede uh um in the uh in in the first
place that a lot of people were actually
trying to get to the aid and and were
trying and this cause the panic and that
also truck drivers then uh were turning
around and people were run over and then
there was a second incident uh where
they put out in statement but also uh
talking to reporters in a briefing this
afternoon uh saying uh that some
soldiers felt threatened and that they
were responding uh with uh live fire but
they also say this incident is still uh
the uh review so uh basically what we
have to remind ourselves is also that
you know in the past as we heard from
the eight organizations and from the
United Nations how desperate the
situation is and I think you can see
that how many people were trying to
congregate around these trucks trying to
get uh to the goods on on these uh
trucks with the eight organizations
warning of this extremely dire situation
because Aid is not reaching uh the
northern part of Gaza
and indeed you could see the crowds in
that footage we were just looking at
released by the IDF um Joe Biden he says
the US is checking reports about what
has happened but do we already know what
what this might mean for efforts toward
a
ceasefire well there is obviously
concern that this might impact those
negotiation these mediation efforts that
are uh going on uh uh between uh
indirectly between Hamas and Israel
mediated by Qatar in Egypt and also uh
the US and we've been hearing the US
President Joe Biden he said that the US
is still trying to determine what
actually happened exactly in this
incident but he was also asked whether
this whether he thinks this would impact
those negotiations where there was some
cautious optimism that you know there
might be some kind of breakthrough
depending on what sources you believe
and he said you know that um uh I know
it will probably complicated complicate
uh those negotiations now of course um
what we are looking at is on the one
hand of course there's hope in Israel
that uh Israeli hostages that are still
being held in Gaza would be released in
such a uh hostage deal in exchange for
Palestinian prisoners there would be
also potentially a longer ceasefire but
also uh there's of course hope for
Palestinian residents what they need so
much more Aid coming in respite from uh
uh uh the as well for for these few days
but it's very important to stress that
of course humanitarian Aid would also go
in if uh you know those negotiation
would be as successful at the end Tanya
Kramer reporting for us from Jerusalem
thank you so much as
ever